Hello and welcome to the Harvest Baptist Church sermon podcast.
We are honored that you would click on this and listen to God's word preached by one of our elders.
At the same time, we strongly affirm the biblical mandate for Christians to be faithfully active and in-person part of their local church.
This sermon cannot and will not replace what a local church can provide to the life of a Christian.
That being said,
We hope that this sermon challenges and encourages you in your faith and that it builds upon the faithful ministry of your local church.
We hope that you enjoy.
God bless.
If you turn with me in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 14 this morning,
Let's open our sermon this morning with a question.
What do you need God to do for you?
I wonder how many of you this morning may be offended or think that such a question is not necessary.
Many times as Christians, it seems at times that we've outgrown our need for God.
We've outgrown
our dependency on him, some way we've outmatured him.
And by such a question, you may say, well, there's certain things I won't, but there's not certain things I need.
But the question I ask you, what do you need from God?
And chances are the, the more that you want out of life that you get,
the less likely you are to be dependent on God.
For instance, the smoother the journey goes, the smoother the car ride goes, the less likely you are to be dependent and thankful for the skillfulness of the driver.
Better off your life is going, less likely you are to be dependent upon God.
But friend, how dependent are we on God?
It wasn't not our elementary school in the Christian life where the Lord taught us to pray to give us our daily bread.
Is it not the Lord who brings the sun up and brings the night?
Is it not the Lord who brings the winter and brings the seasons?
Is it not the Lord who gives us air to breathe and food to eat?
Is it not the Lord who brings the sun up and keeps oxygen for us to breathe?
And there's no doubt that is why in our life, in God's providence, He brings for us situations that over and over again we seem that we cannot untie.
He puts us time and time again in situations and places where we seem not to be able to figure out what to do.
And why is it that the Lord puts us in those situations where we know that we seemingly do not have the answer?
Perhaps it is so that we can find our dependence upon Him.
And perhaps this morning, that's where you are.
Perhaps you are in a moment where you know not what to do, you know not where to turn, you know not how to get out of the situation that you are in, but yet you're looking for a way.
And if that's you, I think our scripture this morning would make sense and it would come to where you are because God's people here, you remember been delivered from Egypt, the 10th plague, the plague of the death of the firstborn son, the death angel had passed through and God had finally delivered them out of Egypt and they seem to be at the height of their deliverance.
But then God puts them in a situation where once again they are plummeted into despair, plummeted that God's providence, His wind of providence has blown and they are in despair again.
So this morning as we look, no matter where we are, perhaps we know not our need, we are not dependent on the Lord, or yet we know our dependence on the Lord.
Let us hear God's word this morning.
If you would stand out, respect for the reading of God's word.
We're gonna pick our text up in verse 10 of chapter 14.
When Pharaoh drew near, the people of Israel lifted up their eyes and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them.
They feared greatly and the people of Israel cried out to the Lord.
They said to Moses, is it because there was no graves in Egypt that you've taken us out away to die in the wilderness?
What have you done to us in bringing us out of Egypt?
Is not this what we said to you in Egypt?
Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians for had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness.
And Moses said to the people, fear not, stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today.
For the Egyptians, Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again.
The Lord will fight for you and you have only to be silent.
The Lord said to Moses, why do you cry to me?
Tell the people of Israel to go forward, lift up your staff, stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it.
That the people of Israel may go through the sea on dry ground.
I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians so they shall go in after them and I will get glory over Pharaoh.
And all his hosts is chariots, his horsemen.
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord when I have gotten glory over Pharaoh, his chariots and his horsemen.
Verse 19, in the angel of the Lord, little revelation here, who was going before the host of Israel, moved and went behind them.
The pillar of cloud move from before them and stood behind them, coming between the host of Egypt and the host of Israel.
And there was the cloud and the darkness.
And it lit up the night without one coming near the other all night.
Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea.
The Lord drove the sea back by strong east wind all night and made the sea dry land.
And the waters were divided.
And the people of Israel went into the midst of the sea on dry ground.
The waters being a wall to them on their right and on their left.
The Egyptians pursued and went in after them in the midst of the sea.
All Pharaoh's horses, his chariots and his horsemen.
And in the morning, and in the morning,
Watch the Lord in the pillar of fire and the cloud of cloud look down on the Egyptian forces and through the Egyptian forces into a panic clogging their chariot wheels.
So they drove heavily and the Egyptian said, let us free from before Israel for the Lord fights for them against the Ephesians.
Then the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand over the sea that the water may back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, upon their horsemen.
So Moses stretched out his hand over the sea and the sea returned to its normal course when the morning appeared.
And as the Egyptians fled into it, the Lord threw the Egyptians into the midst of the sea.
The waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen of all the host of Pharaoh that followed them into the sea.
Not one of them remained.
But the people of Israel walked on dry ground through the sea, the waters being a wall to them on their right and on their left.
Thus the Lord saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians.
And Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore.
Israel saw the great power that the Lord used against his Ephesians.
So the people feared the Lord and they believed in the Lord.
and in His servant, Moses.
Father, thank you for the giving and the reading of your word.
Thank you that you have not left us wondering at the Red Sea.
You've not left us wondering in the wilderness, but you have given us your perfect revelation.
Father, we pray your Holy Spirit would illuminate our hearts and our minds, give us hands to obey you and hearts to desire it.
We ask in Christ's name and all God's people said, amen.
This morning, no matter
The fact, if you were honest, you don't see your dependence or don't see your need for the Lord in day-to-day life, Christian, or the fact that you're in a place you're utterly aware of your dependence on the Lord, we all stand in the same need this morning.
And that is to understand the power of God, the omnipotence of God.
This morning we need to focus in on that in our text.
We've said many things about the pilgrim journey that started when God created pilgrims out of Egypt.
We've been saying that
redemption creates pilgrims and last week we learned about the pilgrims journey that the pilgrims journey is covered with covenant reminders that the pilgrims journey is led by the presence of God today we want to focus in that the pilgrims journey can bear testimony to the power of God and this morning we want to kind of focus in on the power of God and that's where our hearts and minds need to be and so here in this text I want us to see
how we see the power of God.
And starting in verse 10, when Pharaoh drew near the people of Israel lifted up their eyes and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them.
They were, they were feared.
They feared greatly.
And the people of Israel cried out to the Lord.
Now keep in mind it is the people of Israel that cried out to the Lord.
That'll make sense.
And we need to remember that when we get down to verse 15, but they were feared.
They, they greatly feared right here.
Now notice who they fear.
It is Pharaoh.
When Pharaoh didn't go to war many times with his army, but when he did, it was a big deal.
Um, and so here, this is a big deal that Pharaoh has got all look in verse up in verse six.
He made ready his chariots and took his army.
He took 600 chosen chariots.
This would have been like tanks in their day.
You can imagine an Egyptian chariot and all the cinema you've probably seen, but these chariots would have had spears going out.
These chariots would have had three men in them.
Of course the man driving and then a general and then another soldier in there.
So this was like an armored tank in modern warfare.
And he's got 600 chosen chariots.
And something I noticed, I didn't really point out last week, but if you notice in verse one of chapter 14, of course they're scared.
I mean, you put yourself in their situation.
They've been slaves their whole life and now they've come out of Egypt.
And here they're slave master.
I mean, the greatest military in the world, the superpower of the world and the greatest army in the world is now chasing them down.
And God has led them out.
And we've taught last week God didn't lead them by the coastline.
He led them through the wilderness.
because of the pilgrim's journey is cared for by a father who cares for him.
He knew they couldn't make that coastal shorter journey.
But here, if you notice in verse one, he tells them to turn away from that journey.
And notice in verse one, the Lord said to Moses, tell the people to turn back.
And he camped somewhere else.
And the geography of what happened, God turns them around and here they embark in the location.
The geography of where they settled down at is on the east side is the Red Sea.
And on the West side are all these Egyptian, the last Egyptian towns.
So it's somewhat, they're somewhat stuck.
They're between a rock and a hard place between the Egyptians and the army and the Red Sea.
And they're stuck right there.
God has stuck them right there.
Now, as Watson would put it, they're cooked.
From humanly perspective, they are cooked.
All right.
I mean, God has put them in an, a humanly speaking and impossible situation.
They're slaves.
They come out in an array of hosts we read.
They come out with some kind of weaponry, spikes, I mean, hoes and pitchforks.
But here's the greatest military pursuing them.
They've got millions of people, a couple hundred thousand men, but that's nothing compared to this army.
They have no military.
They're slaves.
They know nothing about what's coming.
And they are greatly feared and somewhat rightly so, humanly speaking.
So the first way we see how God's power, that God's power, God is glorified by delivering his people from impossible situations.
Now that being said, this seems like an impossible situation.
Now throughout scripture from this point on, this great miracle that we just read, God acting and delivering them, parting the Red Sea.
We read throughout scripture that this is a symbol, a sign, a reminder of God's saving his people.
It becomes a picture of God's salvation.
Even notice this at the end of the text.
God saved his people that day.
Well, Psalm 66 verse five, resist, come see God's awesome deeds for men.
He turned the sea into dry ground.
Isaiah 43, the Lord who makes a way in the sea.
and a path is the one who opens the mighty waters.
Now over and over, there's a lot of scripture, but this is a picture of salvation.
Now we think about our own salvation and we need to think about God's power in our own life.
We need to think about what God saved us out of.
If you're a Christian this morning, you were saved out of a humanly speaking, impossible situation.
If you're not a Christian this morning, right?
If you've not placed your faith in Christ, you need to understand this is the situation you're in.
You are in three ways really bad.
One, the Bible tells us the consequence of your sin is death.
The soul that sins shall surely die.
So you're condemned because of your own sin.
The Bible says all have sin and come sure of the glory of God.
Romans 6.23, the consequence of that sin is death.
The consequence of your own personal sin, every single one of them, can only in one sense, the only way you can deal with that and pay for your sins is to spend eternity in a place the Bible calls hell, where God's judgment and wrath is known for all eternity.
That is the consequence of your sin and of my personal sin.
That is the consequence.
Now, not only can you condemn for your sin, but you also have a sinful nature.
The Bible says you are Ephesians two, you are children of wrath.
You are bent towards sin, David said in Psalms, as sure as sparks fly upward.
All right?
David said, in sin, my mother conceived me.
Not, didn't mean out of wedlock meant that he was born a sinner.
Now a lot of times people say, you know, well, you know, Christ died for my sins and amen, he did.
But he also, if he just died for sin, your sins, that's not quite enough cause that still leaves you.
He died for you, right?
Because here's a, you don't just commit sins
and that makes you a center.
You commit sins because you are a center, right?
You're a thief and you steal because you're a thief, but you don't steal and then become a thief, right?
It's your, the problem is our inclination.
The problem is our heart.
It's our desires.
That's why education is not the solution, right?
Education won't save anyone.
If you educate a center, you just made a clever center.
You just made a clever devil, right?
Um, environment, people say the problem is environment, right?
They grew up in a bad environment and that's the problem, right?
The French Revolution, uh, so all of the, so the, uh, the noble savage, you know, if you, you find a native American in the wild ride, that's perfect humanity right there.
He hasn't been corrupted by any, any part of society.
His environment has, as, as let look, that's perfect humanity.
No, it's not.
Every single human being was born in sin.
Right?
Later, I worked with last year, she had a well at her house and the water, she said, just stinks.
Just really strong smell for, you know, just they couldn't solve it.
Well, one thing that wouldn't help it, okay, and I don't know how to solve that issue, but if you painted the pump on the well, that's not gonna help it.
It's not gonna help it.
You can put anybody in any environment you want, that's not gonna fix the problem.
It's not gonna fix the problem.
So you're condemned because of your sin,
because of your sinful nature, but you're also condemned.
Apart from that, you're condemned in Adam.
Before you, all the human race was condemned when Adam sinned in the garden.
The Bible tells us in Romans five in Adam all died.
When Adam sinned, his sins was accredited to your account in at and one man all died.
He condemned all of man.
Now,
That's an impossible situation.
You are condemned for your sin, your sinful nature, and cause of Adam's sin.
He was our federal head.
He was our representative.
And when he sinned in the garden, he sinned on behalf of us.
You say, well, that's not fair.
Oh no, it's not fair.
It is of grace.
Because the Bible tells us if through one man, if through one man sin into the world, then through one man,
righteousness could be had if all are condemned in Adam, but in Christ all are made.
So if you're condemned by one man, the grace of it is that you can also be saved by one man.
An impossible situation that God saves his people from.
Now God's power is not only seen in saving his people from an impossible situation.
God's power is seen by delivering his people from their enemies.
God's power is glorified.
God is glorified here through defeating his enemies.
Now, how does he do that?
Well, the first thing we see is we keep reading here and we keep on reading.
We get down to as they were, they were fearing the Lord down in verse 15.
First, what we're going to point out in this text is, and we've seen this all throughout this episode, throughout the book of Exodus, that God is glorified through his power, and he has power and providence over the hearts of people.
The Lord said to Moses, why do you cry to me?
Now, I find this, now interestingly, remember, Moses didn't cry out to God.
Who cried out earlier in verse 11?
The people did.
The people did not Moses.
So why is God saying, Moses, why did you cry out to me?
But then Moses replied, the Lord says to Moses, why do you cry to me?
I remember though, you know, Moses would have said, well, Lord, I, it wasn't me, but also Lord, this seems like a good time to cry out to you.
Right.
Here's the Egyptian chair.
Here's the army.
There's the, you put us here.
We're all facing our death.
Um, this seems like a good time to cry out to the Lord.
Listen, God says, no, tell the people of Israel to go forward, lift up your staff, stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it that the people of Israel may go through the sea on dry ground.
I will harden the hearts of the Ephesians so that they shall go in after them over and over again.
We saw earlier, we saw it up in verse four, I will harden Pharaoh's heart so he will pursue you.
And then we're told later that in verse
eight, the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart in here.
Not only is it going to harden Pharaoh's heart, he's going to harden every Egyptian heart.
Now we need to say this again for clarification.
Pharaoh was a moral agent.
Every human is a moral agent.
God has given us decision-making abilities and we are responsible for every decision, every action we make.
Because God hardened his heart does not neglect the fact that he's responsible for his decisions.
He's responsible for his actions.
No matter what, we are responsible for our actions.
The Bible is clear on that.
However, God is also sovereign over every human heart.
Not just Pharaohs, sometimes we look at Pharaoh and the hardening of Pharaoh's heart and we think, yep, here's one situation where God hardened his heart and God is provident over this heart.
Here's one situation, friend, that's every heart in human history.
That is every person in human history, none exception.
God is sovereign and yet man is responsible, yet God is sovereign over it.
He didn't just harden Pharaoh's heart, did he?
He hardened
every Egyptian driver of every chariot, every soldier, everyone.
He hardened them to go after them.
God is glorified and having it being providential over the enemies, over his people's enemy, over their hearts and over every heart.
Secondly, as we move on in verse 19, what we see here is God's power.
God is glorified in protecting and providing for his people.
God is glorified in his powers known by not only over being providential over the hearts of people, but also over providing and protecting for his people.
Looking verse 19, the angel of God who was going before the host of Israel moved and went behind them in the pillar of cloud move from before them and stood behind them.
Now, interestingly enough, in all the cinema of the Prince of Egypt, but the Ten Commandments and all the movies, this is usually left out where that night, the glory of God, the Shekinah glory of God in that cloud, that fiery cloud went from in front of the people to behind the people.
Now, and it wasn't just a cloud of power,
We're told here in verse 19, it's the angel of the Lord.
This wasn't just a cloud.
This wasn't just an angel.
This was the angel of the Lord.
We know our Bible.
We know our Old Testament, right?
We're going to come up in Joshua chapter five.
Josh was going to come out before Jericho and he's going to come before the, um, the host of the Lord's army, the angel of the Lord.
And he bows down and he worships him.
Now there's one, one great sin in Israel, right?
You, the first you worship no one but God, no one but God.
But if this is just any angel, right?
What would the angel have said?
Hey, don't worship me.
Get up.
I'm not God.
Nope.
The angel says, take your shoes off for the place where you're standing.
Holy ground.
Cause that same angel of the Lord was the same angel of the Lord in the burning bus that called Moses that when Moses bowed down before him, told him to take his shoes off for the place where he was standing was holy ground.
You see, this is God with him.
This is God with him.
Here's what we've got to understand this morning.
God's glory is seen every day in our life by providing for us and protecting us.
Now this is in a supernatural way, but here's my fear.
I fear that we have become so modern, so secularized as Christians that we fail to see God, his power every day in our life.
We fail to understand God's
Omnipotency, his all power because we, it's right in front of us and we won't see it.
Right?
We need to get what John saw in heaven, right?
In, in Revelation 19, John the revelator says the voice of mighty waters and great thunders.
He hears all of heaven saying hallelujah, the Lord omnipotent raided the Lord almighty.
Now that, that word almighty is used 25 times in scripture and it's only ever refers to one person.
and that is God.
One person and that is God.
God is incomprehensible, the plenitude of power.
He's absolute potency.
And we know this by special revelation, but we also know this by reason.
For God is the great I am.
He's the self-existing one.
If he is the creator and the self-existent one, then all power, he must have all power.
God is equal to all the power that is.
When we use the term omnipotency,
It's not a name just given to the sum of all power.
Okay.
When we say omnipotent, almighty, it's not just a name given to the amount of power or a source of power.
It is an attribute of the trice holy God.
And this angel of the Lord is holy God protecting and providing for them right here and right now.
Now God provides for us every day.
And yet we don't see it because we've been so brainwashed by the world.
We've went to secular schools.
We've been so brainwashed in what has been called the laws of nature, right?
Now there's a couple of ways to use the term law.
It can be an authority, you know, and the laws of the land, you shout out, murder, shout out, right?
And certain laws that the authority uses to keep justice and to keep law in order.
Those are laws.
But we've also come in science class, you remember, the laws of nature.
And we say these are the ways the world function.
But why is it, the Christian has say, why is it this world functions the way that it function?
Why is it that things happen?
Oh, why is it the sun rises every day?
Why is it the seasons change?
Why is it we have oxygen to breathe?
Why is it that gravity works?
Why is it because of the laws of nature?
You see, we've become, we look at this world, even as Christians and it's impersonal, we look at this world and it's empty and it's dark, but the sacred riders didn't see this world like that.
When they looked at this world, they saw this world as alive.
They saw it full of God.
They saw it, I mean, just shouting for the glory of God every day.
His handiwork all around us, every breath that was breathed.
They saw that and we fell to see it.
We fell to see it because these are not just laws of nature.
The Bible tells us in Hebrews chapter one, verse three, he holds all things together by the power of his word.
He holds everything together by the power of His word.
I want you to hold that.
When God created the world, how did He create the world?
He said, let it be.
He's spoken into existence, right?
This morning we were studying Sunday school with the kiddos.
God went up to Jeres' daughter and he said, what?
She was dead.
People were laughing at him.
And he said, stand up.
The power of His word.
He healed a dead girl, right?
He told Lazarus, what?
Arise.
When he's in the garden of Gethsemane, he's praying, right?
Um, the, the Romans and, and also the soldiers from the high priests, they come to take Jesus captive and they come and they say, are you Jesus of Nazareth?
He turned around and he says, I am.
And all of them hit the ground, the power of his word.
We see the miraculous in the Bible.
But yet we fail to see God's phenomenal working every day.
And it is this, the same word that created the world, that rose the lasers from the grave, that those soldiers clap is the same word that is why the laws of nature work.
Every day he upholds him by the power of his word.
When we wake up, look at the glory of God today.
This is my father's world.
This is my savior's world.
And he holds it all together.
Yet we fail to see it.
But God's power is seen.
through providing, protecting his people.
Of course here, the scene is that he moves from the east side to the west of Israel and he gets between the army of the Egyptians and his people and the Egyptians see darkness and they're confused.
But at night it tells us that the place is lit up and that they can see all night and that God's people continue to have light.
So the same cloud that protects them and provides for them.
is confusing and condemning the Egyptians.
God protects his people.
He shows Ms.
Glory by standing between his people and their greatest enemy.
Now also, how is God's power seen in this text?
We'll look in verse 21.
In verse 21,
Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord drove the sea back by the strong east wind all night.
And he made sea dry land, and the waters were divided.
And 22 the people of Israel went into the midst of the sea on dry ground, the waters being a wall on their right and on their left.
The Egyptians pursued and went in after them in the midst of the sea.
And all Pharaoh's horses is chariots and his horsemen.
Now, if
in your mind, I'm sure some things stand out.
Let me say these words to you and let me ask you what stands out in your mind.
A wind came, you see on verse 21, and then you see dry land, and then you see that the waters were divided in verse 21.
Are there any other biblical events that come to mind?
Well first, of course, you know your Bible, you thought of creation, where God created the world.
Right?
And what happened in this formless world, in verse two of Genesis one, the spirit of the Lord was over the waters.
The spirit in Hebrew and wind are the same Hebrew word, Ruach.
The Ruach of God was over the waters.
And here God sends a wind.
The other occurrence is what?
Is the flood.
It is the flood.
The Bible tells us in Genesis chapter eight after the flood that God sends a wind to calm the seas.
He remembers Noah and he sends a divine wind to calm the waters.
So we see this, a couple of occurrences come to our mind, but also dry ground.
What did also God do in creation?
You see Moses is, is showing us what happened, but he's also recurring us back to how God works in this dry land.
When God created the waters, created the world.
He separated the waters and then he divided the waters and then there was dry land.
You remember Noah?
In the occurrence of the flood he sent out the raven hoping there was dry land Nope, he sent out the dove he come back with an olive branch He sent out a dove again didn't come back and he understood that there was dry land to be found and God parted the waters and there was dry land for Noah and his family and here he parts the waters again so there is a
dry ground and the waters here at the end of verse 21 the waters are divided of course in creation the waters were divided for there to be dry land now when it comes to the flood you have the opposite the waters that were divided are now brought back together the waters from the deep the flood story and waters from above the heavens are open and the water consumes so what happens in creation
In creation, you have where God makes dry land, and God gives people to live, and there's order, and there's creation, and there's beginning.
And then you have the flood.
There is God's punishment on sin of all humankind, right?
On all the animals, and what happens?
The land is taken away.
It is consumed.
The water, God's judgment is poured on.
And then here, what do you have here in the parting of the Red Sea?
In dry ground, you have a new creation, right?
You have the waters.
The wind of God comes and it divides the waters again, just like it did in creation.
It divides the water, the wind does, and it makes dry land.
This is a new creation, a recreation.
What do you have?
You have a new nation.
You have a new people.
You have a new day.
You have a, go into a new land.
What does it say?
It's a new morning.
Here you have God recreating this.
Now, of course, in what takes place next when God drowns,
drowns the army.
You know, liberals love to look at this and say, well, God's people went across.
But, you know, I've read a few commentaries even this week that said, you know, this wasn't the Red Sea.
It's the Reed Sea.
There's two E's there.
And it's more like a swampish ground.
It really wasn't a sea.
And God's people went, yeah, they left Egypt.
There's historical record of that.
But they went across this marshland, this swamp land.
And Pharaoh tried to pursue in the marshland and his chariots just wouldn't make it.
But then they, this is a metaphor liberals tell us.
This is not really what happened.
You know, and one preacher, you probably heard this before.
It's common here.
And one preacher preaching this text and a person who doubted the miracles in the Bible and the supernatural working of God and his, his power and his all might came and said, you know, this objection that this was just the Reed sea and really maybe it was knee deep water, but that would have been about it.
And the preacher said, wow,
God did even greater miracle than I thought he said what do you mean?
He drowned the whole Egyptian army in knee-deep water.
That's that's quite amazing feat God is doing a new work and God is making a new people Now think about it.
This have been bump-and-go hadn't it the whole exodus had been a bump-and-go deal The first couple plagues let my people go.
Okay.
Nope.
I'm not going to
All right, another few plagues.
Here comes the flies.
Here comes the frogs.
All right, I'm going to let them go.
No, I changed my mind.
We're leaving.
No, we're not leaving.
All right, here comes the boils.
It's nine for three days.
All right, we're going to go.
No, I'm not going to let them go.
It's bump and go.
And then the 10th plague and then the death of the first one, then they all leave and they're all excited to get out, right?
But then there's a huge thousand car pile up, million car pile up at the Red Sea, bump and go, bump and go.
And now there's huge traffic jam.
Why is all that?
God's saying, watch this.
Watch what's about to happen.
This is going to be the end right here.
And look what happened.
And it says here, if we keep reading, it says, as Moses, I want you to find a few words.
When he overthrew them, and Moses stretched out his hand, the Lord drove the sea back.
And in verse 22, the people of Israel went to the midst of the sea on dry ground.
Verse 23, the Egyptians push and went in after them.
All Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, his horsemen, in the morning, watch the pillar of fire and cloud look down on the Egyptian forces and through the Egyptian forces into a panic.
Here it says, he threw, that's the Hebrew word for shook.
He shook them.
In verse 25, clogging their chariots wheels so they drove heavily.
The Egyptians said, let us free from before Israel for the fight for them against the Egyptians.
The Lord fights for them.
In verse 26, the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand over the sea and the water may come back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots and upon their horsemen.
So Moses stretched out his hand over the sea and the sea returned to its normal course.
In the morning appeared the Egyptians fled into it and the Lord threw the Egyptians
into the midst of the sea, that same Hebrew word for shook.
This is the same verb that she used when Hebrews would say, shake the crumbs, all the rug, get the crumbs off the table, shake it off.
God here destroying the Egyptians was not hard.
This is easy work for him.
Why is it?
Because he's all powerful.
At God's command, he has all the power of the universe.
Therefore, he can do anything as easily as anything else.
all his acts are done without effort.
He expands no energy that must be replenished.
His self-sufficiency makes it unnecessary for him to look outside of himself for a renewal of strength.
All the power required to do all that he wills to do lies in undiminished fullness in his own infinite being.
God never, God never gets tired.
He, everything God does is easy as everything else he does because he's all powerful.
Nothing is hard for God.
He just shakes the Egyptian army.
He just kills all the, all of them.
It's easy for him to do and he is glorified in all of this and they contribute nothing to it.
Now I want you to think here of God's power and how light of a work it is.
This is light work.
There is nothing hard for God to do, but yet when God becomes man,
And God doesn't, when God becomes man in Jesus Christ and the fullness of Godhead dwells, when he takes on humanity, he loses no divine attributes, but he adds onto that human attributes.
And the attributes are not to be mingled, they're to be discerned, okay?
They're not to be confused.
And when Christ is on the earth in Mark chapter two, you remember the riff roopers, he's there teaching and they drop down the paralytic,
And Jesus looks at him and he sees the faith of his friends and he says, your sins are forgiven.
And the people, there are some Pharisees, they're watching.
The Pharisees begin to rub their chin.
They begin to, they begin, they begin to rub their head and they begin to think, wait a minute, why did, how can this man say his sins are forgiven?
Nobody has the authority to forgive sins other than God.
And Jesus, knowing the heart of these men, he finally looks at them and he says,
Why is it that you're thinking that it's odd for me to say your sins are forgiven?
He says, what's easier?
Is it easier for me to say your sins are forgiven or is it easier for me to say pick up your mat and walk?
Then he turns around to the man, he says pick up your mat and walk.
But let's go back to that question, which is easier?
Well, it was easier for him to say pick up your mat and walk.
Though he is God, he did have the authority to forgive sins for Christ to forgive sins.
He would have to go to the cross and he would have to take the flood of God's wrath so that this man's sins could be forgiven for our sins to be forgiven.
What did Jesus say?
Jesus said, I'm the greater Jonah.
I'm the greater Jonah.
What did that mean that he was a greater than Jonah?
Well, when Jonah, you remember when he fled from God, he was headed toward Nineveh, not headed toward Nineveh.
What did God, what did God do?
He sent a great storm.
And finally, Jonah goes to the men of the ship and he goes, if you throw me overboard, you'll be saved.
If you throw me into the water of God's wrath of his judgment, you will be spared.
Jesus says one greater than Jonah has come.
He's greater than Moses.
In verse 15, did you know that commentaries pick up on this in verse 15?
He says, Moses, Lord says, why did you cry out to me?
What me?
The sins of the people are put upon Moses because he's their mediator.
You see, Jesus is a greater Moses and our sins are placed upon him.
And what happens on the cross is he walks into onto dry land.
He walks into the Red Sea in the flood of God's wrath.
God releases it upon him and Christ drowns.
When we speak of the baptism of Christ, that was the baptism of Christ.
Why was Christ baptized by John?
Because he started his public ministry the same way he would end it, under judgment, under the wrath of God for his people.
This was, Jesus said, this was the work that he had come to do.
And of course it tells us here that not one Egyptian was left
every one of them was drowned.
And this is a picture for all of us who do not believe in the power of the gospel, that the gospel is the power of God to save.
Everyone who does not have this faith will be like the Egyptians.
They will also come under the wrath of God.
Lastly here, as we close this, God not only is seen through saving his people from an impossible situation, God's power and God is glorified from saving his people from their enemies.
God is also
glorified and saving his people from rebellious unbelief.
Did you notice the change in the text?
How does this text end in verse 31?
Israel saw the great power the Lord used against the Egyptians so the people feared the Lord and they believed in the Lord and in his servant Moses.
At the beginning of this passage, who did the Israelites fear?
They feared Pharaoh and his army.
Now they fear the Lord.
Who did they complain and utter against?
Moses, but now who do they trust?
Moses.
God has saved them from rebellious unbelief and taught them to fear the Lord.
Now there's some commands in this text we need to heed today and apply to our life.
God tells his people earlier when he, when they are complaining, he says in verse 13, fear not, stand firm, see the salvation of the Lord.
For the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again.
The Lord will fight for you.
You only, only need to be silent.
Some of Christians here today, you've obeyed the Lord.
You've took a stand on His word and you're wondering, you're antsy about it.
Friends today in those situations, you need to rest in God's word.
You need to rest in God.
You need to stand still and see His deliverance.
However,
Many of us come to Christ when we were coming to Christ and learning of the gospel, we thought there were works to do.
We thought there was enough attendance, enough money to give, enough goodness in us that would earn God's favor.
My friend this morning, if you're not a Christian, you understand that becoming a Christian and being a Christian is not about anything you do.
It's not about trying.
It's about trusting.
Martin Lloyd Jones Jr., the great preacher of yesteryear, he would ask people, are you a Christian?
And when he ever heard the response, well, I'm trying.
He knew right then that they were not Christians because becoming a Christian is not about trying at all.
It's about trusting God.
It's watching him save us.
Romans chapter four, verse two says, speaking of Abraham, if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast before the Lord.
What did Israelite tears?
They saw God fight for them over and over.
See God fight for.
He's the invisible warrior.
He destroys this army.
What could they say?
We walked on that dry ground, really good.
No, they could say nothing.
They had nothing to boast about.
Paul goes on to say in Romans 4, Abraham believed God and was counted as righteousness.
Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due.
Our wages before the Lord is sin, but listen to verse five.
To the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith,
is counted as righteousness.
Now, Israel would forget what would happen here.
It will not be into the next chapters where Israel will go wayward.
Israel will doubt God.
When they get to the promised land and God delivers them over and over again, when Deborah comes up and Barak to fight Cicera, they will forget how God drowned the Egyptians, how he marred up their chariots and God killed them in a flood.
They will forget this.
No crowd to the Lord for help and God will do the same thing again.
Many of us today have forgot God's provisions.
We've outgrown the Lord and need for the Lord.
We forgot past prayers that the Lord has answers, past provisions, current situations the Lord has put us for that we didn't deserve, that we tried to mess up, but the Lord prospered us and we doubt and we complain.
We need not to be like Israel.
We need not forget God's power in his provision.
He kind of can't chuckle at verse 15.
The Lord said, why do you cry out to me?
Tell the people of Israel to go forward.
God told Moses, now's not a time to pray.
Now's not a time to pray.
Many of us at many times in our life, we use prayer as an excuse for not acting.
When God has clearly convicted us and clearly spoke through his word, we need not to keep praying about it.
Sometimes it is, it is not faith that sits and ponders fear.
Sometimes we say, I just need to think a little bit longer.
I just need to pray a little bit longer.
Many people just need to obey the Lord.
He has spoken.
If you're a Christian, you've not been baptized.
You receive the Lord.
The Bible commands you to be baptized.
Bible commands us to be a part of a church.
Many of us need to join a local church.
God has called us men to lead our families.
We need to lead our families.
We don't need to pray about it.
God, we're told to love our spouses minutes.
Christ loved the church.
We don't need to pray about it.
We need to quit praying about it.
Well, lives are called to respect and submit to their husbands.
You don't need to pray about that.
Need to obey it.
God has called us to obedience and there are times for prayer, but there are times when prayer just praying a little bit longer is not what the Lord has called us to.
He called them to go forward.
Lastly, how many equations in our life?
How many situations in our life do we leave Almighty God out of it?
How many days do we forget about the power of God?
How many situations do we find ourselves in where God is not in the equation at all?
This happened very fast.
In fact, it said in the morning, they were all drove away.
And when the morning came that night, all of the horsemen, all the chariots, all of them,
had died.
It happened just like that.
We need to remember that our life here is just a vapor.
And all the unbelievers around us, family members, friends that we come in contact that life is just a vapor here today and gone tomorrow.
And God, they need without the gospel, without Christ, without hearing the gospel from us, there is no hope for the morning is coming.
Jacob wrestled with God in the morning came.
Deborah prayed unto the Lord that Israel would ride up.
And later we read in Judges that Gideon rose in the morning as he crossed the Jordan.
Sunrise is coming quickly.
The trumpet will sound.
The dead in Christ will rise.
The Lord will divide the sheep from the goats.
And his sheep will go into eternal bliss, but the goats will go to eternal torment.
The Bible says the morning is coming when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess.
Time is short.
And heaven is sweet and hell is too real for us not to live with urgency.
Christian, the morning is coming.
Let us pray.
Father, let us heed this text.
Let us heed your power.
Let us ponder on your all might, your omnipotence, your ability to deliver.
Let us have the faith, not of the Israelites, but the faith of Daniel, knowing that God, you are able to deliver us in every situation.
And even if you don't, we will still praise you.
Father, we trust your providence.
Father, we wanna be people who think of your power in our lives and are thankful in every day for every gift that you have given us, for every moment, for every family member, for every friend, for every church member, for every person in our fellowship that we get to love and be in this life that you've called us to.
We wanna mostly thank you, Father, for the power of the gospel.
that you put our sins upon our savior.
And our savior, when he went to the cross, he did not forsake you.
He did not forsake us, but we were on his mind.
He loved his own to the end.
Father, help us be people who proclaim your power in the power of the gospel.
We ask it in Christ's name.
Amen.
Thank you for listening to this sermon from Harvest Baptist Church.
For more information about the church, please visit our website harvestbc.church.
If you would like to contact us, please email us at contact.harvestbc.gmail.com or you can call us at 706-780-2211.
If you are looking for a church home or visiting the North Georgia area, we would love for you to join us on a Sunday morning.
at 9.30 in the fellowship hall for breakfast and Sunday school, and then at 11 a.m. for our Lord's Day worship service.
We hope that you have a great week.
God bless.